So DAX SST2 is officially out. It's officially out, right? Yeah, it's officially out finally. I've been in a hole for I
Think six months. I'm not releasing anything and it's rewriting every single line
And it's finally out as of last week
We haven't made too much noise about it because we haven't updated our docs, but yeah people have been using it and it's going well so far. I think
I
Yeah, that's why I asked if it was official X. I couldn't remember seeing like a big tweet
But I've been using like the snapshot and then the whatever the other version was the release candidate before we get into like
What all is in SST2 and just talking about SST more generally first question I have when you said that made me think
You've been in a hole for six months. Did you ever feel like?
That your your SST
Counterparts your co-founders. Is that the word? I guess did you ever feel like they were doubting you or wondering is this ever gonna actually happen?
Like when you go six months
Did you ever worry about the perception of what they might say or they've been seeing it all along the way?
Yeah, well, here's the thing right. I wanted to do this the moment. I joined the team
Which was two years ago?
But I had to build up credibility over the last two years before I was like hey
I'm gonna do this and I think it's gonna work. So I think the team was pretty bought in
That it would work out
None of us like it and if you look at our so we review our numbers every week every every Sunday and
If you look at our numbers the past six months, they have not been really good like the growth has been
Pretty like there's like always like a decent amount of growth. There's been no like jumps or nothing exciting
Right when you say none of us like it like what none of you like SST 2
We don't like having to like just do a big rewrite
We're not releasing you stuff because we effectively released nothing new over the past six months
And we're used to releasing new stuff like every two weeks or every month whatever it is and that really drives our growth
And gets people excited and so the past six months. We've been operating without that motivation without that feedback
So we didn't like having to do this. We knew we had to exit enables a bunch of really interesting things and
Now that it's out we're looking at our numbers and like yeah
We're back to seeing like these huge jumps from everyone trying it out and people getting excited about it
So I don't think they doubted me. I probably doubted myself a little bit because
It was there's just a lot to figure out
But we got to a place where there's like a working demo a bit and a working demo was pretty exciting
We got to that pretty early on so it wasn't terrible. So but I just realized we haven't said what SST is and
It's like not everyone knows. So maybe could you give like the
Could you give the elevator pitch?
You really need to have a pitch. Oh man for SST. Could you give the pitch?
What is it just get in a high level? I'll try it
So SST is a framework that helps you ship applications to AWS AWS is a big complicated beast
We all know this there's maybe 3% of it that you need to use to build
95% applications and we try to focus on that 3% and make the best experience we possibly can and
Let you bring other complimentary
Modern tools like all these cool front end frameworks that come out
Yeah, and you would say do you guys label yourselves as an infrastructure is code framework? You're kind of like going beyond that now
I feel like but is that is that how you would classify the likes of the CDK or serverless framework?
Yeah, that's definitely where we started and for a long time. I saw ourselves as a
infrastructure is code, but more lately
I'm seeing that more is just something that we have to do to let you do everything else
We want to help you build an application and deploy to AWS. Of course part of that is gonna be spinning up infrastructure
But if you're if you're like someone that's trying to do a bunch of infrastructure work and you want a tool for that
It's probably not going to be SST because we're more focused on application developers that
Don't really want to spend a bunch of time doing infrastructure work because their infrastructure is not very bespoke
It's kind of the standard
API's front ends databases
Cues things like that and that's what I love about SST as somebody who's come from like the other
traditional infrastructure is code frameworks like the CDK or just CloudFormation even
It's like SST actually focuses on the application
Authoring like what you go past the infrastructure and you actually help with the writing actual code for your project
Like it feels like a modern web framework, but it's doing all your infrastructure as well and none of the others really feel like that
It's like it's cool. It's like Mac versus PC or whatever you do
Linux, I don't know and it's so tight script friendly. It's just very modern. Yeah
And I think it's because you know people that work on SST
We have a weird mix that I don't like our backgrounds kind of a weird mix
So you don't often see we all have done a lot of front-end
But we've also done a lot of infrastructure. So
These other frameworks
I don't think are and they're written by people that are very very good infrastructure that are a lot better than us infrastructure
But you don't often see the combination of front-end plus infrastructure and I think our framework reflects that because we're trying to help you build
You know, like a full application and I think that's why our position is a little unique
Most people either are peer front-end engineers and never want to look for structure or you kind of don't really often run to infrastructure engineers that
Like to do front-end. So I think because we have that combination as a C reflects that. Yeah, so I want I want to like
dive into what is new in SST 2 versus like for people who actually know what SST is I feel like that's worthwhile doing
But I also just kind of want to like share my experiences with SST and some of the things that get me really excited
Which makes sense to go first. Yeah, I'll do like a quick explanation of what it is. So people have have context and why I did all of this
So SST up until 2.0. So all of 0.0 and and 1.0
It was it was the same code base from the beginning and you know when you're a startup
You don't really know what you're gonna become. No one knew it as he was gonna become at the beginning
And it was also started at a time where TypeScript wasn't as obvious as a choice. It is now
So large portions of the SST code base were written in just JavaScript not even TypeScript and as you guys all know
I love TypeScript. So it was a pain for me to just go into that code base all the time
So that was a real limiter. We had some really old code optimized for certain things that
We don't really focus on anymore
Just because our startup has has shifted and our framework has shifted
And then the second side of it is we never really cared about performance when we were building stuff
We just wanted to get stuff out. We weren't thinking about okay. This adds 100 milliseconds
Or this adds 200 milliseconds, and we did that
You know over the course of several years and you eventually end up with stuff that just is very slow
so one I wanted to rewrite everything in TypeScript and
two during this rewrite I wanted to make sure that
Any little thing we add we understand performance cost and we really optimize the heck out of whatever we can find
So the experience with 2.0 is as a user it definitely feels faster
And I think everyone's like noted. It's like it's not just we did well in benchmarks people can feel it and
Then for us as people maintain the project we're able to ship way more way fewer bugs. We fixed like we fixed like a thousand little
Bugs are like weird ergonomic issues with ST two
With 1.0 people could use it
But I wasn't really excited for people to try it and I was really excited for the experience for it with 2.0
I'm definitely more excited with okay people are gonna use is an avid decent experience
Of course, I said I don't feel like it's where I wanted to be but definitely no order magnitude better than where it was
Just go ahead down for another six months. I'm sure
I can't can't do that again. I want to speak to my experience with SSD
But it's not really like I think all my experiences with SSD 2
I don't think I played with it much before you had like a snapshot release that I could play with
I think like there was a recent example on Twitter and and I'm more speaking to web developers
I think I'm not like people who've used the CDK or people who've used CloudFormation and they want something new
If you're just a web developer so rocks who streams on Twitch
He is building this thing and you need to do uploads
ideally multi-part uploads it's like huge video files he's trying to make this app where people can upload their video files and
He wanted to use s3 he heard that'd be better than what he was doing which was like
People posting straight to his railway server or something
He's sent him in on Twitter and I've talked with rocks about this a lot. I'm not like talking behind his back
His sentiment on Twitter was like why can't there just be an easy thing just give me like a
Library that'll just do this for me and there's really not a way to do that
Traditionally like to have a library that goes to that extent because it's like back-end stuff
It's infrastructure stuff and then you've got the front-end piece
It's going to be multiple things you're stringing together to make uploads to s3 work
But sst actually makes it this I see this future where you could have like an sst
Construct or like a third-party library somehow the builds with sst and it encapsulates all of that from like your front-end
Which sst helps with deploying your front-end whether it's astro or solid start these like exotic new things or it's next JS
You've got these constructs where it's like you're acknowledging the whole stack
Within your application and you've got this opinionated folder structure
So you create an sst app and you have this place to put infrastructure stuff like functions that need to run
APIs databases storage whatever like s3 buckets, but then you've got like the ability to drop your front-end there and
An interact with those back-end components
natively like very easily without managing all the environment variables and all the plumbing and all that stuff
So I can imagine a world where you could have these kind of higher-level application components
That makes something like multi-part uploads to s3
Way more feasible and then rocks could have his wish of like somebody just point me into a thing that I can just install
And then it'll just work
Right now like multi-part uploads are a huge pain even just normal uploads s3
there's like a several steps involved there and you don't just have like a node library that you can install and
Suddenly have all that work. So that's my take like and I built out a multi-part upload thing using sst
It just feels really good and just it feels like a modern web framework like I said
But it actually takes you into your AWS account and deploys infrastructure and does all these more like
Bespoke things you need to do when you're building things that aren't trivial. Is that accurate?
Yeah, and I think that fits with the way I've been thinking about things lately. I have this idea where
Whenever we're building features, I try to think of it as I don't want to make the user leave
Their editor. I don't want them to make them leave their language. So
If you build like the best let's say we all know AWS console sucks
Let's say you built like you're the best designer in the world the best front engineers in the world and you built the absolute best AWS console. There is
It's still not the correct experience because if you are in your editor, you're writing application code and you need to
Create a bucket to upload stuff
The context switch if I'm gonna switch to some UI tool to do that. Yep is doesn't matter how good
You've made that UI tool you've already lost the developer experience because they had to do a context switch
So for us
We know most people are using TypeScript. They have to be using it if they're on the front end
So they're likely gonna use it on the back end and we want to make sure you can do everything through TypeScript
And if that's a case you're never doing a context switch like doing quote-unquote infrastructure work just feels like
the rest of your code and
The type safety we've provided across infrastructure front-end and back end makes it all feel like one one thing
So we're kind of hoping we get to a place where it feels like I'm just writing an application. I'm not doing these
Discretely different tasks. Yeah, it's somebody who does all the parts of the stack
It's very refreshing to me, but I'm like a kind of a weird maybe use case like I work alone a lot and all that
You've got a lot of startups using SSC. I've been in your discord
That it doesn't seem like there's any has there been a drop in activity and in the discord for those six months
It feels very active. They don't seem to have slowed down a bit your customer. Like who's building on SST
We're so growing really well and you know with 2.0. We've seen a huge jump our focus is definitely still startups
we believe in helping people
Builds like you know, they're trying to build sustainable companies a single product to you know to work on and
Obviously that needs to be easy at the beginning
But it can't be this thing where they hit a point where they just hate our tooling
You need to eject out of it really hardcore. So
We intentionally accept that our stuff is never going to be the easiest to start with because you need to trade something off
To get there you need to trade off longevity. So most of our users are
startups or companies or teams that are working together
We do have like really large enterprise
Companies as well and we like to support them as much of the best we can but our focus really is
I'm sorry. I'm trying to start a company. It's just me and my co-founder and within a year
And then there might be a team around this and there's like a very narrow set of things
Those people need so it's very easy to optimize for that experience. Yeah, and you're very like
Practical I would say is the word you thought you've thought through the whole authoring experience in the light of like
Future maintenance like not a lot of frameworks seem to care as much about how easy is it to keep building on your thing?
You say like in year two in year three that stands out as well as I work with it like the domain-driven design stuff
I mean, it's just stuff that like in the serverless community, especially it's sort of been abandoned
It feels like and SST is kind of bringing it back to
Those principles. Yeah, and these are all just really old ideas, which is what's funny about it
Just stuff that's been around forever and has worked forever
And it's always fun to like deviate away to see if things are different now, but
the stuff we have in there is
old time tested stuff that the most maintainable apps
apps have
But we try to keep it light like we don't want you to like we never want someone to feel like I'm studying the theory of something
And I think that was a lot of what even serverless was like for a while, right?
Like I'm gonna become a serverless developer and have these like
Grand theories about serverless architecture and infrastructure. This is how we think and this is how with what we believe in and
It becomes like a whole philosophy, and that's kind of why I was saying the other day like the front-end world has a much better relationship with serverless
most front-end engineers are
Really serverless native like everything they do is so they don't even expect anything different
They just expect it to be serverless, but they don't think twice about it. It's just a natural instinct to away from them to do things
Whereas I think the back-end world has been it's always been like this very intentional large step
Yeah, to doing serverless as opposed to feeling like oh, this is just normal. This is what building applications is like
Yeah, you mentioned earlier ejecting - I thought I should point out I think in my
Examples things I've built with SST. I've had to use something
There's something I needed deploy outside of that 3% on AWS
Like I needed some kind of infrastructure and you could just drop CDK components directly
Into an SST stack like these are just cloud formation stacks or just CDK stacks at the other day, right?
So accurate. Yeah, exactly and that's uh
As much as I struggle with the constraints of CDK because it's not my project
It's AWS's project and you know, sometimes I want them to do things differently. The reason we're still on it is for that
long-term maintainability sustainability thing
We are never going to be able to cover a hundred percent of people's use cases. They're always going to need to do some weird thing
that's different and
It might it's not even that it's misguided or anything. It's just people have different requirements
And being able to drop down into something lower level that still feels pretty similar
Um, like when using a CDK contract, it's a little bit different and some of this stuff doesn't work as nicely as it does with SST
But it's not like you're dropping down to writing yaml all of a sudden right something that you like never seen we're doing something in the console
Yeah, exactly. So I think that's a lot of the reason we've seen we're able to see especially for I mean, we're not
we're still like a new project and
For something as important as your infrastructure. It's a big decision for people and I think a lot of the reasons
We've been able to see a good amount of growth is everyone knows that there's an escape hatch of fail safe if
If they don't like something they can they have the underlying layer they can drop too. So we don't take that lightly
We know it's a big reason why
People are going to try it out and you've got the open next so you deploy next to sites into an AWS account with similar feature
Sets as versatile, right? I mean, there's are there still things you guys haven't built out maybe?
Yeah, so that's an it really interesting project and I think we're getting some signals over the last week that it's working out the way we were hoping
the idea behind it was
You know, versatile has this really awesome serverless
Infrastructure to deploy next year sites. We don't know the full details of it
But they can do whatever they want right because it's a black box
They can use some of AWS. They can mix in cloud flare. They can kind of do whatever set up works well for them
And if you want to self-host and you want to have a similar serverless setup in your own account or whatever it is
It takes the effort of an entire versatile engineering team to
To like come up with that architecture and do things correctly
And there were several like disparate attempts of doing this you can think about like, you know individual open source attempts of
Okay. Hey, like here's here's like a way you could do it in your AWS account
There are other proprietary attempts right like netlify let you deploy next year as to their infrastructure similar to verso
Amplify has their own
So if it felt to us like everyone was repeating this work
Over and over
So we try to create okay, let's create like an open attempt at doing this
And we're not
Is no one on the team is a next year's user
So we're in a lot of ways ill-suited to do this like we understand the infrastructure stuff really well
We understand front end in general and how to deploy friends in general well
But if it comes down to like how should this specific next shas middleware
Operate like we're not the people that do that. So that's why we really want an open effort
We saw enough interest in our community where a lot of people were deploying next shas like next shas experts
I'd like to do every little detail of it
And we really wanted them to contribute and like find bugs and be opinionated on how it should work
and over the past week we've been seeing
pull requests fixing like really obscure things that
We would have probably never figured out
Uh, so it's something like this. It's always going to be a little behind
Vercelle because like you know, they're building actually us their infrastructure is going to match it and they're gonna be a nice lock step there
We're always going to be a little behind but if we have a decent amount of eyeballs helping us and looking at it and
And helping us stay up to speed
We have a really good shot at maintaining parity with a similar
Next shas experience on vercelle. It's never going to be the same because they mix in other stuff
Like they use cloud player for some things or ourselves a hundred percent AWS and we have the constraints there
but
It's at this point is comparable and I think for most use cases it works effectively the same
I wish the whole next shas thing being so complicated deployed didn't taint my like I it's hard for me to want to use next now
just because
It's so complicated to deploy and I know I'm like probably unique there everyone's still
Probably using next JS in mass
And deploying to vercelle and I'm sure it's not hurting them any but for me as somebody who's really into
Like running stuff in my own a business account and building out my own apis and those things
Uh, yeah, the whole like complicated nature of next JS because you guys have other constructs for like
These other frameworks and they're super simple right like deploying an astro site
Super simple
The next JS not super simple. You have to have a whole open source
Like movement to try and keep up with what all the they're doing there. I guess it's good
I mean, I guess the features that they provide are cool
I just wish it wasn't so complicated. Yeah, exactly like if you look at the code for other contracts
So right now we have an astro contract. We have a remix contract. We have solid start
Contract and we have more coming
The other three are almost exactly identical and there's almost they're like share
Like 90 percent of the infrastructure and there's like very little nuances between them
Um, but these other frameworks were built to be very neutral from day one
Right, they like in their repos. They have adapters for
For cloud player for netlify for running in a container. Um, I'm interested to see how these evolve because
That is a constraint that they're adopting. They're saying we're going to build in a neutral vendor neutral way
And maybe for front end that doesn't matter too much
But at the end of the day next JS will always provide features that are very difficult for
Some of these other providers to other frameworks to do
And I'm starting to see them kind of break that little like astro has their image component, which you know only works
Like it doesn't work in cloud player. It only works in like AWS type environments
Um, so as an example of these frameworks having to
Draw some lines and be a little bit opinionated
They're all really good and complete filling frameworks
Is it is it just about the runtime like they want to use something that's node specific or something and then it has to be deployed
To node servers that that's what they yeah, that's one one constraint
Uh, but things like next JS is a bunch of like interesting stuff right like they're middleware
It's like oh your middleware can run an edge
So it can like decide things before it hits your regional function
Those are like architectural features that you know coming from like whoever's working on astro
Their only ability is to say you have a single function and this bunker is going to execute
They can't like do complex routing stuff at the
like the infrastructure level
Um, I don't know how important all that is
Again, I don't use next JS so I don't know how like oh, this is a really awesome feature
Or this is just like a cool thing that you use once in a while
So yeah, I think these frameworks won't be able to do that type of stuff
But as a user of these frameworks, it doesn't feel like it's mattered too much
I can do everything I need in astro and solid start and all these frameworks
I haven't felt limited yet by them and whatever framework you're using you can use sst to deploy it into your own AWS account
Super cool stuff. I'm a big fan. I've become a big fan. I think those six months
I needed to see you put in the effort backs and once you did that, I felt solid moving forward with us
I mean, that's kind of what I was hoping so
Like it would bring on the the people that are slow adopters like me
Well, uh, it's been I don't know two and a half months since we've done this. Is that right?
Yeah
It's flown by
It has like one to hibernation for the one. Yeah, it was just a holiday break. I like to take long long holiday breaks from everything
And that's what this was all the way up to president's day. Yeah
When is that when when's labor day? Is that like June or something?
Never keep track like we could if we both are kind of independent like we don't have the the company
Calendar to remind us of these things. Exactly. Just don't know. Okay. I don't remember how we ended
Do we ever have a way we ended a podcast episode or was it always just kind of like awkward goodbyes?
I think we were always just like all right. See you Adam. All right. See you next